Research writing about The Media Equation
!Firstly, how have we been designing the data space? In The Media Equation, Byron Reeves and Clifford Nass found out that people are treating media as social actors. Meaning, even though people consider computers and television as mere machines or tools, responses to media are not primarily governed by rules about how to use appliances more akin to a hammer or car. People unconsciously perform social reactions to media as if they are another intelligence, regardless of their dissimilarity to humans. While the book invests mostly in proving phenomena observed in a
￼series of experiments and suggests applications to new media design, it doesn’t really break down the observations and explore the causes behind the phenomena. Among the two authors, Byron Reeves seemed to be more interested in cinema and television, whereas Nass is more invested in computers. Considering that the book was written in 1996, it seems to be a fair distribution of attention. However, interestingly, the research in the book uses computers as tools of the experiments, which makes a more consistent context to analyze and infer why we are treating computers like a human. What aspects of the computer makes us act in a such way?First, communication between human and computer takes a form of message exchange – text, gesture, or voice messages. Also it is very interactive, which makes the nature of computer use similar to having a conversation. Second, a computer works as a complex system that has its own principles of behavior. Even in the simplest computer algorithm, there is a chain of actions followed by a message inquiry from a user. It might not be hard to guess the logic behind a outcome, but still, all the complicated mechanisms are hidden inside of the plastic or metal case. In the experiments, the participants change their attitude or reaction to computers according to flexible tones of responding messages from computers. They preferred machines which flatter them more(flattery), or have a tone feeling more comfortable to their personalities(personality of characters). And they behaved more politely to computers through interactive question and answer compared to a paper survey, and even changed their attitude along with nuance of an interface. This happens because the certain aspects mentioned above give users the feeling that they are dealing with an intelligence. Although the input device of computers is borrowed from typewriters, the purpose of computer keyboards is to send inquiries, to ask questions, and to respond to messages from computers, unlike its original. From this, we can reveal one of the reasons that people were treating a computer as a social actor in the research; it is because the communication between human and computer is designed to partly mimic human to human communication. Even though it is unclear that the media equation has been practically working as a milestone of the design process in new media, it certainly was addressing a strong tendency toward to a design process aiming to create natural, self explanatory interfaces.Throughout the history of interface design, this tendency can be observed more clearly. Even before the age of graphic user interface(GUI), operation systems with command-line type interface was intuitive enough for the user to input data as if it’s a typewriter, and to communicate as if it is conversational interactivity. As we entered the age of GUI, we got to organize workspaces like a desk, and files into folders. We also throw files away to a trash can. Ever since the advent of the internet, relevant data are gathered on ‘sites’ and the sites are connected like a ‘web’, and we ‘visit’ a site to access data. We have our own ‘walls’ that we can post information about ourselves, and they are shown in the form of a ‘timeline’. On smart devices, we can flip and pinch data on screen. Skeuomorphism, a design trend that is evident in a majority of smart devices, is an extension of it. It is a design strategy that has the philosophy of the media equation in its center, employed specifically for helping a relatively new device blend into our everyday life, therefore, aiming to gain high popularity. Although smart devices are complicated systems, users don’t need to reference a manual to navigate through it, since whatever situation you would face, there are design elements that look and act very friendly and self explanatory. Considerately designed and allocated skeuomorphic elements have been helping billions of people to understand and accept the unfamiliar cluster of technology. And after that, it is now being abandoned.What is happening? It seems like interface design in smart devices is following the traditional gravity towards minimalism, but there are more user-behavior related reasons behind it. The major criticism that skueomorphic design was receiving was that “we don’t need it anymore, it’s time to move on”. What this criticism suggests is clear. We started to accept and understand that smart devices, a collection of elements that you have seen somewhere, is not identical to their real world counterparts. It doesn’t take a volume fader type virtual slider to inform us to slide to open a
lockscreen. Showing a horizontal bar might be enough to tell us that this element is a slider. We can now automatically draw a picture of the way and the consequence of interaction in this specific context, which suggests a new way of perceiving and accessing data behind the touchscreen. We are becoming capable of seeing, feeling, and experiencing a new reality that had not existed previously. 